                                                               Thoughts on Maverick Poker



There are some 477 trillion possible 25-card deals.  Symmetries reduce this to some 19.9 trillion deals.  There are 102 different hand distributions, from 13-12 to 7-6-6-6.  I classify the deals into 10 different "schemes", where a scheme is like a rhyme scheme.  ABCD indicates four suits of different (decreasing) lengths, and AABC indicates that Spades and Hearts have the same lengths, and Diamonds and Clubs have two different lengths.  We would have 

Spades $\ge$ Hearts > Diamonds > Clubs.

My experience with the problem indicates that we need to use heuristics, where applicable, before resorting to exhaustive search.  The most valuable heuristic is that, when each suit has at least five cards, one should try to remove just enough cards from each suit to leave a flush, and use the five cards removed to make a pat hand.  This heuristic applies to fully fifty percent of all hands.  I think that this heuristic needs to be tailored to specific distributions.  For certain distributions, like 7-6-6-6, we should first try to make the fifth hand a full house.  This is easy to check and has a very high probability of success.    I think there are also a lot of cases where there is only one suit of less that 5 cards that would benefit from a heuristic.  I need to do more research on this.

I have a Maverick solitaire game that I've been playing in order to get an idea about the heuristics.  I should make a clone that allows me to set the suit distribution so that I can try to develop heuristics for specific distributions.

I've been reading "The Rust Programming Language," and I'm concerned about data structure.  In rust, tuple and array types have fixed size, but vectors and sets do not.  tuples and arrays live on the stack, but vectors and sets are allocated on the heap.  The thought of doing trillions of allocations and deallocations make me want to use tuples of arrays for the hands.  This would require having a separate function for each of the 102 distributions, but that might not be as bad as it sounds, as there would be a lot of commonality.  

Some distributions occur so rarely that it wouldn't be worthwhile to develop a heuristic; we'd go straight to exhaustive search.  In the past, I've tried two different exhaustive search method.  One was Knuth's dancing links.  The other was to count for each card, the number of pat hands in which it occurs.  Then I sorted the deal in increasing order of this number, and tried to find five pat hands that would over the deal.  I experimented with adjusting the counts and resorting the after each choice of a hand.  I think this turned out to be slower, but I was using quick sort.  Tim sort might give much better results.  

Both these methods require generating all possible pat hand that can be made from the deal, and if there is no solution, there's no way to avoid this.  But, of course, around 98% of the deals have a solution, so we should look for a less expensive way of looking for a pat hand if the heuristic fails.  For example, suppose I haven't been able to find a good heuristic for the 9-8-6-2 distribution.  Does it make sense to generate all the pat hands immediately?  Say that the 2 Clubs can't occur in the same straight.   Would it be better to construct all the pat hands that contain one of the clubs and check if any two containing both Clubs also comprise 4 Spades, 3 Hearts and a Diamond?      
